Objective:- Every one often find themselves using long URLs with different-different purposes. These URLs often travel in emails, getting copied over sheets and docs, thereby are risks of getting ruined by formatters. objective of this project is to design and implement a URL hashing system which would allow us to overcome these problems primarily.
Technology: Django
Programming Language: Python
Long URL Length: No Limit
short URL Length: 5 charecters
URL hashing folder contains all the main fiels to run this project. 
    setting.py fiels contains all the initial setup for the project.
    Urls.py fiel have all the base page paths of the project.
Database used is inbuilt database offered by Django Sqlite3. I have created a table name Url to store the long and short urls. This have an inbuilt querry function to map new urls and check existing urls. if The long urls entered by user is already existed in database then function will return same key regarding url. Otherwise it will generate a new key for that long url and map it to Database.
Admin UI is also added in this project it is same provided by Django.
Base folder contains all the files required for the working and projects.
    view file have all the function for creating short url and redirecting to the same page with that short url and if the key for the url is not generated then it user will be redirected to the home page of project.
    To generate key of short url MD5 hashing is used, as we know python has in built library for hasing called hashlib so i have used it in project. we can also use BASE64 to generate key in order when we want to sacle our project because it is supported by NoSQL which have high scalability. MD5 has some advantages like it save some space on database but not supported by NoSQL.
    In MD5 hashing it generate a long random text for each entry and we can pic first 5 charecters of that random text generated by MD5 as I have decided to take key length of only five letters it also have a reason.
Some basic templates are added in templates folder to design our Home Page. 
    templates folder have index.html which used to get url from user and uses POST method and this stored to URL table and same displayed to User after generating Short key.

User can see Shorl url driven by local host and can copy and paste url on browser and he will be redirected to the same page as Long URL.
GUIDE-
extract folder Url_hashing from Zip folder.
import all the folders to visual studio
Make sure you have installed Django and pyhto on local environment.
if not first install python from web browser.Then go to command prompt and run command " pip install django " to install django.
After this to runserver use Command "python manage.py runserver" 
copy server link and paste on to browser.
An home page for the project will be open.
enter long url in textbox and hit submit you will get an short url copy and paste short url to the browser you will be redirected to the same page in case of long Url.
 

